Gwenevere Abriel: Check, check, check. Can you hear me okay
Laura Lujan: Hi.
Gwenevere Abriel: Find somewhere.
Laura Lujan: Yeah.
Laura Lujan: No.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, I'm opening up a note here I'm
Laura Lujan: Just throwing it. I don't know.
Laura Lujan: I almost feel happened. I didn't
Laura Lujan: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, um, let's what we can do is try and put Yeah, see if the cattle go down on the floor. Let's see.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you're at your father's house right now.
Laura Lujan: Are you are, you're
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. That makes it more comfortable for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, alright, just turn my volume up. Alright, so you're at your boyfriend's and
Gwenevere Abriel: How long have you been awake. I saw you checked in. Thank you for that. And it's my I've got a
Gwenevere Abriel: I was running a group and it, it never ends on time. I just can't.
Laura Lujan: Wait to see
Laura Lujan: Okay, but you
Gwenevere Abriel: But you checked in on time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Thank you for that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because I went I went and looked and I saw you were there and I was like okay
Gwenevere Abriel: So I ran over and opened up a room. So anyway, it worked out. All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's continue the conversation we were having last time we were starting to talk about
Laura Lujan: One other thing I want to get right. Oh.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you remember some of the either the feelings that you had last time we spoke or some of the content just just want to check in and see if any of it stuck.
Laura Lujan: Because I don't
Laura Lujan: Really, I remember. I'll let you down because you told me I didn't do it or not. And then you're like, Laura through life.
Laura Lujan: Like I gotta let you know. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's interesting. So I'm looking at some notes here, it's, it's a, it's a, there's a lot of at the top of them kind of write down in the middle.
Gwenevere Abriel: We were talking a little bit about how your step mom is rude trying to turn on me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, here we go. Didn't do my homework. I forgot you said
Laura Lujan: You got boring. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so Dad said this was the piece that I was remembering
Gwenevere Abriel: It was Dad, I want to go to rehab with you. You got cast and I talked about sort of the ethical standards of treatment that it's it's highly, highly unlikely, even if you were to make sort of himself. There
Gwenevere Abriel: You wouldn't be in treatment with them.
Laura Lujan: Oh, good. Right.
So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. So you said dad grew up in small town, maybe it is why he thinks it's okay. This is a. Okay. Um, so this is today we're going to talk about boundaries. We're going to really spend probably the whole time talking about if you're writing something down and be healthy boundaries.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so that's what you were touching on um when you were saying maybe it's why he thinks it's okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: To what right that's the boundary. What, what is he normalizing think is OK.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we're going to get into that.
Gwenevere Abriel: It could be a downfall. And me, then I could relapse okay right you putting yourself at risk if you work in a benefit from treatment. It's a scary thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's how he gets the power over me invited boundary setting one time dad asked me to watch a video and you were saying, as an example, you set a boundary with your dad because he's basically didn't watch the video.
Laura Lujan: I did to
Laura Lujan: kind of mess.
Gwenevere Abriel: We're going to talk. We'll talk more about it. LAURA BEING ABLE TO SET healthy boundaries.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is an everyday process. It's not like, oh, I say it. We talked about it once in your life just lines up and everything's perfect
Gwenevere Abriel: This is typically a critical and important piece of growth for people
Gwenevere Abriel: For years, like so. I don't want to make it sound like I'm saying it, and everything's going to fall in line. This is a hard thing to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: A to recognize when it's a boundary issue to recognize when you're know like your firm know is going to work in a particular environment it's it's subtle and tricky and
Gwenevere Abriel: You're the expert in your environment. So I'll talk about different things and we can do some role plays and I'll give you some little tricks about how to communicate. But ultimately, it's going to be you. That will have to navigate that terrain.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so no way I'm not, I don't want to insult you with trying to make this seem easy boundaries are hard for every one, even with the best Silver Spoon upbringing, they're still really hard. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: To say are no is to risk a conflict and none of us like it. We don't like conflict.
Laura Lujan: Everything.
Laura Lujan: In our life.
Laura Lujan: Cowboy, yo.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I know.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I got
Laura Lujan: What we're on whenever every time I would, I would just take on a ship out the window and I got talking and
Laura Lujan: Yeah.
So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Talk about it today. So you get a sense of how important it is. You can see that it's it's almost like all or nothing. Either you shush insane kitty really
Laura Lujan: Quite remark.
Gwenevere Abriel: Cat question or cat, cat needs some attention. Um, so it is it is an important thing. And a lot of times what what you're describing is this polarity of a leader say nothing. Say nothing say nothing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or explode as most people it's that one and wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. And then they they had this big explosion or they get themselves depressed or they act out through aggression.
Laura Lujan: They were, you were, you were on the road.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh,
Laura Lujan: So a lot
Laura Lujan: Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: For some people,
Gwenevere Abriel: That repression, you know, day after day, week after week, month after month, year after year ends up where people will sometimes explode in anger, sometimes they will use drugs and alcohol, right, because they can't deal
Laura Lujan: They can't get over them.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah over they'll cut burn. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Uh huh.
Gwenevere Abriel: But do you notice how it
Gwenevere Abriel: Wants an outlet. It doesn't that repressed opinion and preference. It doesn't want to just stay all locked up. It wants out notice right and so
Gwenevere Abriel: What we can do is find a healthy way to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, exactly. We're not damaging relationships are throwing our stuff out the window.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I get it, I get it, though.
Walking
Laura Lujan: Only boy you know 19 company.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's spend a minute. I'm going to share the screen with you.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I don't know if you if I show this to last time or not, but you may want to take a screenshot of it.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's somewhere on my screen. It's just hidden behind couple. I found it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, here we go.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright share screen. There it is. Okay, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's go through the right side, which is a pretty typical approach.
Gwenevere Abriel: We might right which is unhealthy unhealthy boundaries.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is how they show up in one's life. So I'm going to read them and you kind of get a sense of, oh yeah, me too. Or no, I don't do that anymore. Or, oh yeah, I do that still a little bit or maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: With this person or that person. So the first one. You can't say no when you're afraid of rejection or abandonment. So that's when you know you bumped into an unhealthy boundary. So there's basically two two types of boundaries. There's one see my hand, if this is the boundary
Gwenevere Abriel: It's too porous, which means too much of someone else's opinion too much of someone's emotions too much of someone's unwanted touch even or they move my stuff. It's, it's, it gets through. It's called a porous boundary
Laura Lujan: Or
Gwenevere Abriel: Or this one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, uh huh, or nothing gets through this one is rigid
Gwenevere Abriel: So this one, this one, you can't take in, it would be a rigid boundary where nothing gets through. This one's porous where too much gets through. And this one's rigid. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So here's what we'll take we'll just going to take just an example. So I can give an example of what this looks like. So in the therapeutic relationship between you and I, I've already seen that you have
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, it's not one or the other, you've been able to hear my opinion.
Gwenevere Abriel: And hopefully I don't know if it's true for you, but you can hear it and realize it's just my opinion.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not maybe true for you. But it's this lady's opinion, she can think what she thinks I know my own opinion, but I can hear her right is that happened.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, you're in there or wait let me see, let me check if I say something, do you take it on as the truth. Just because I said it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Depends.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: We'll keep an eye on on that one. So, um, where which relationship would you say it's harder for you to say no because you're afraid you'll lose abandonment meaning, you'll lose resources or
Laura Lujan: Whatever right and
Gwenevere Abriel: Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: I'd say specifically is is more useful.
Laura Lujan: Or back in the day, my mom. My mom whenever I she she had this idea of like the perfectionism. So I grew up like I grew up, you know,
Laura Lujan: Looking at my name. I'm not looking at anything not really guided like she would just get really mad at me and I mean
Laura Lujan: It was kind of like, you know, and then so she was like my 91% and be like, Oh, well, it's really hard. I get your autograph for your
Laura Lujan: Family, and I'm like,
Laura Lujan: 90% Hi guys welcome to class.
Laura Lujan: Right, so you know that had a big influence on me.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you're
Laura Lujan: Letting her determine what
Gwenevere Abriel: Uh huh. That's right. So it's her opinion getting through. So what was needed was smaller, smaller little spaces. So there's I know my truth. I know I'm doing my personal best.
Gwenevere Abriel: And letting sort of what she's saying bounce off of you. But when we're children when we're teenagers and still to this day, it can it can seek seep through the boundary and it can hurt and it can damage and erode our sense of self.
Boy.
Laura Lujan: If I call you back on. Yeah.
Laura Lujan: I don't
Laura Lujan: Want it
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to see it in here more you're going to see another than what you just described, there's going to be even a better example in here. So let's keep reading.
Gwenevere Abriel: So the healthy version of that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is to where you can say yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or you can say no. You're okay when others say yes or no to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to feel it, you're going to notice over time as your boundaries get clearer and clearer that when someone says no to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: That you don't get resentful angry offended.
Gwenevere Abriel: You just go, Oh, they've reached their limit, they don't have it to give and you're just going to move on but not right now. Right now, it's this intense, how could you How dare you.
Laura Lujan: Bigger right
Gwenevere Abriel: But these are really the way these are written and makes it seem simple, but the actual change process does take some time. So, but let's just do an overview. Let's keep going. Let's look at the second one over here. The second one under unhealthy boundaries.
Gwenevere Abriel: You have your identity consists of what you think others want you to be. Now that's even getting closer to what you just described with your mom isn't it.
Laura Lujan: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so you become a what what's this a chameleon.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Where you can be and do anything anybody wants you really right. You're attuned to you can get a sense of what they want.
Laura Lujan: And you actually, you know,
Laura Lujan: I don't know a lot
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, chameleon right
Laura Lujan: Well, what can I do for your, your
Gwenevere Abriel: So here's the key word. You see this word identity.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is where it becomes kind of high risk if you continue along this line.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you continue to behave in a way that only accommodates other people. If your whole identity is on. I know how to conform contort turn into a pretzel accommodate others, then
Gwenevere Abriel: What happens to this sense of who am I, it starts to be questioned. Well then who am I really
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's look at a healthy version of identity a healthy version would be have a strong sense of identity and you respect yourself, you're not waiting to see what other people think of you. You are respecting yourself.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're also helping
Gwenevere Abriel: You, um, you may, if you want to, I don't know if your phone will allow for a screenshot. This is one that a lot of people decide to do screenshots of if you know how to do it on your phone.
This is a pretty handy.
Laura Lujan: Yeah, I got it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's go to the third one.
Gwenevere Abriel: This concept of of identity that I just discussed earlier, is a really complex one, and it takes for some people quite a while to understand
Gwenevere Abriel: How continuing to be a chameleon can threaten the sense of self of who am I am I am I really real. And I being honest.
Gwenevere Abriel: It can, it can erode the identity. So this is, this is one that takes quite some in depth work, but we're just touching lightly on some of these concepts. Let's keep moving. Let's go to the third one, you have so unhealthy is you have no balance of power or responsibility in your relationships.
Gwenevere Abriel: You tend to be either overly responsible
Gwenevere Abriel: And controlling
Gwenevere Abriel: Passive and dependent. Yeah. You see it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. So I heard just a tiny touch of it when you were talking about the dynamics of money and how that money with your, with your father is the exchange of of
Gwenevere Abriel: How he's wrong do and so he see it. It's this power piece that you guys are in kind of locked in this particular game.
Laura Lujan: Um, another one would be like my with my with my animal lover. I got back in his life. Whatever I kind of like told him that I was
Laura Lujan: Pretty much. And you'd like any level, but okay. And I'm like, I'm serious, like I already back in the day, or whatever. So
Laura Lujan: I thought that the workout for your I never thought like that. But now I
Gwenevere Abriel: Mean, let me see if I heard you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you just say
Gwenevere Abriel: I hurt you. I don't expect you to trust me 100% right now I need to earn that trust.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes. Okay. That's what I thought.
Laura Lujan: And you're like, Whoa, like you know you and you're good. I
Laura Lujan: Feel
Laura Lujan: Like the
Laura Lujan: Like to me. It was never like that. I always call it. I'm a level, there is no legs, no legs or 30 or whatever.
Laura Lujan: No, I was always thought that he should treat me like a kid and athletes who are and how I watched him after and I'm like why I know, but it's just it was always like that and you never understood it and kind of why because it wouldn't work.
Gwenevere Abriel: So here's the healthy opposite of this. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: And a healthy relationship is you expect reciprocity and I'm going to tell you that word is such a great one.
Gwenevere Abriel: You share responsibility and power. Just because you let's say we're self absorbed during your active addiction. It doesn't mean you are unworthy of the same power responsibility value respect.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not you weren't negative 30
Gwenevere Abriel: The addict is a no good rascal, and I get that. But you the authentic self. You are deserving of reciprocity shared responsibility and power.
Gwenevere Abriel: You were never negative 30 that's that's not that's not true. You may need to earn people's trust again because the addict was making the decisions and I get that. But you were still lovable and worthy the whole time.
Gwenevere Abriel: It just doesn't mean that you were making some of the decisions I think the addict. Who's making a lot of the decisions when you are using
Laura Lujan: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and I don't have a lot of respect for the addict. That's the truth. And so I don't have nice things to say.
Laura Lujan: I'm all for today. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. But no, I want to talk about this word reciprocity. Have you ever heard it before. Do you have some idea of what it means.
Laura Lujan: Right there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Reciprocity do you join tell you what it means because it's a pretty important word
Laura Lujan: Right, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Very with the birth of recreating right
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, it is not is it you do know it it's just you haven't seen it in this form before
Gwenevere Abriel: You accept brick reciprocating
Gwenevere Abriel: Communication trust love, affection.
Gwenevere Abriel: Contribution to housework to money to
Gwenevere Abriel: Power responsibility reciprocating which means give and take, and give day. But what you were doing before was you were less than that you you were unable to 30
Gwenevere Abriel: You
Laura Lujan: Were not on. So I thought, okay, well,
Laura Lujan: I don't mind money, I'll pay for it. I mean, what do you do, why
Laura Lujan: Because I don't want
Laura Lujan: To go back to the home. I heard your mom was nothing.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you're catching it. You're catching that you're older, you're
Gwenevere Abriel: Over compensating you're overcome.
Gwenevere Abriel: But that's because of this part. You see this word identity.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's where it got messed up you you don't quite, I don't think get
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not diminish because of what happened.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's keep reviewing because again we're just doing a light touch will pick this stuff up if you think that coughing is from from tobacco or a cold. What do you think that is
Laura Lujan: Another thing I have a cold.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well,
Gwenevere Abriel: That stomach you that that's a
Gwenevere Abriel: pretty complex.
Gwenevere Abriel: Stomach ears.
Laura Lujan: Is it
Gwenevere Abriel: I just want to make sure, is it a dry cough or is there some Fleming there.
Laura Lujan: You know, there's a lot of one
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, good.
Laura Lujan: I early are like growing up. I grew up.
Hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right. Do you want to grab some
Gwenevere Abriel: You want to run
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's go.
Laura Lujan: I did a lot of them. Oh my god, oh my
Laura Lujan: God, we have a bug out bag.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes. So you take on other people's problems.
Laura Lujan: But
Gwenevere Abriel: That falls that falls under an unhealthy boundary. And most likely, I'm guessing it comes from this sense of identity.
Gwenevere Abriel: I see myself as someone who can be anything and everything I can be the helper. Let me. Help. Help. Help. Help. Help. I get my value for being accommodating and helpful, but it's too much of anything even good is too much it depletes you okay and it doesn't
Gwenevere Abriel: Work. I'll get more into this later.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's really hard to not
Gwenevere Abriel: Go into each one of these in more depth, but now I'm going to go over. Can you still hear me.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's go over to, you know, in the problem is yours. And when it belongs to someone else. So you're going to hear me in group and in here. A lot of times, say,
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that a me problem are you problem. I don't encourage it out loud when we're talking with people because it's going to piss them off, but it's
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's a good thing to have in your head meeting.
Laura Lujan: Okay, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You keep inside
Laura Lujan: Your, your thing, and the personal Bob but like
Laura Lujan: Okay, I'm not gonna
Gwenevere Abriel: Cause a fight with net
Laura Lujan: Or
Laura Lujan: Your car.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know well
Gwenevere Abriel: We there's more elegant, there's more.
Gwenevere Abriel: Graceful ways of saying that get aren't quite as abrupt
Gwenevere Abriel: But this is the thought the thought behind it is you know when it's your problem. So you're, for example, your father's drinking his, his inappropriate behavior.
Gwenevere Abriel: It is primarily it has affected you profoundly but it is his problem to get treatment needs.
Gwenevere Abriel: To say again.
Laura Lujan: Shop. I think sometimes I do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: No, that's no no no no no no.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not because you're not the cause and in the chicken and egg scenario. It's the chicken that came first. Okay, and you're the egg and dad came first mom came first. So you are not to blame, because you're hurting and angry and resentful deep inside and you act out in some way.
Gwenevere Abriel: You are not to blame for what problems existed before you were born. Truly these these these issues with your family had nothing to do. You're not the cause of any of it.
Laura Lujan: Okay. Oh my god, that is so true divided reading a discovery packet on the call. Oh my God, I thought
Laura Lujan: Oh my gosh.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, hold on, because I can't hear you. Hold on.
Laura Lujan: Oh god. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So did you just read you share personal information too.
Gwenevere Abriel: Soon, we're establishing okay so it's okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: But this is the first time you probably ever had it written out like this before.
Gwenevere Abriel: So listen, this is this is because I believe in your, your, your family dynamic. There was no boundaries. There was no boundaries, psychologically, physically
Gwenevere Abriel: So you what you thought was normal. You go out into the world and you're doing using those same boundary concepts, but they're too porous. There's too much. We need to close them up just a little. You see what I'm saying, closing up
Gwenevere Abriel: Just a little. We don't want to give information to openly to people that haven't earned your trust.
Laura Lujan: Yeah, I did. I whenever I thought
Laura Lujan: Everybody from across. I did that I did that through the cracks.
Laura Lujan: And whenever I read out of the god dang, I'm not
Laura Lujan: Like
Laura Lujan: That was awful. Behind me you
Hear me
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, so
Gwenevere Abriel: You. Um, here's the deal with it over to the healthy one. We didn't do, let's go over to healthy you share personal information gradually
Gwenevere Abriel: In a mutually sharing trusting relationship. So what healthy boundaries look like is let's say you're meeting a new friend and you put a little bit out there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh yeah, you know, I've kind of I had a little bit of difficulty when I was younger. You start out, kind of like, and then you get a sense of how this other person handles that information.
Gwenevere Abriel: If they treat it with respect, or if they. Oh, what kind of bad person, or you will then we're not going to keep sharing our way where you would just wouldn't
Laura Lujan: And
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, and so they do the same thing. If you ever been around someone where you just met them for the first time and they tell you
Gwenevere Abriel: Every trauma that has ever happened to them and it's all like first time you met him the first hour
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Laura Lujan: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what is this. So what is the message now that you're seeing it here that's over on the unhealthy side. What do you think that says about that woman or that man that they would give you everything before you have earned their trust.
Laura Lujan: No.
Laura Lujan: Beginning
Gwenevere Abriel: They don't have good boundaries. So if they don't have good boundaries for themselves how careful. Are they going to be about yours.
Gwenevere Abriel: You here in it.
Gwenevere Abriel: If they can't even see where they end
Gwenevere Abriel: And you begin on that psychological plane.
Gwenevere Abriel: If they're not willing to moderate and give small bits to you to see how you treat what they say.
Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: No. Say that again. I didn't hear you.
Laura Lujan: All the time to get sympathy, because a lot of people do that, like, I'm not a succession of your Android or whatever, it will try and do you make
Laura Lujan: Me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, they play the victim and they want sympathy. But guess what, that's not healthy, they just met you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, we just met, and you're trying to be a taker. Then they wait. Whoa, whoa, whoa. You know what I'm trying to say like, let's get to know each other, first before you start manipulating my emotions. So we go slow.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, let's keep going. Next one.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do we do, do we do the healthy version.
Laura Lujan: Um, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your personal information.
Laura Lujan: Slow or
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's go to this one here.
Laura Lujan: You guys
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh yeah, right.
High
Gwenevere Abriel: High
Gwenevere Abriel: High tolerance, you have a really high tolerance. So what you think is normal.
Gwenevere Abriel: The next is, it is going to be like, how do you put
Gwenevere Abriel: All of you, you must not have any self respect. How could you do that, right. So every family has their on sort of
Gwenevere Abriel: Baseline tolerance and we end up taking that out into the world and then we're in new relationships we put up with abuse and disrespect. If it's physical if it's emotional if it's sexual we're putting it out there because this is what we thought was normal.
Gwenevere Abriel: It might mean you're going to tolerate people doing that a lot more than a person who hasn't had the particular history and upbringing, you've had. Let's go to the next one. So,
Yeah.
Laura Lujan: My friend, Tommy, what are you doing, why have you not yet.
Laura Lujan: Oh my. Excellent. And you know the cops showed up bass and drums guitars and I said no. And I'm so impressed by what the fuck are you. Why are you doing, I just gonna let us know what like
Laura Lujan: You know, and they had to call him I didn't talk
Laura Lujan: About kind of, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: And there's nothing there was nothing wrong with you.
Gwenevere Abriel: That was a year cycle at your age and development.
Gwenevere Abriel: The threat of losing a home safety, the little bit of affection that you have was was too daunting. It was too much of a threat. So, I get it. I do.
Laura Lujan: Work department for her.
Laura Lujan: Yeah, I don't want to get thrown out of it.
Laura Lujan: Support
Gwenevere Abriel: But it but there's a toll on you, Laura.
Gwenevere Abriel: It takes a toll.
Laura Lujan: backfires I am at the end of the game. If you get a conflict or four times and it but my credit, but the good news is, whenever I turned 18 2013
Laura Lujan: I was mistaken. So that's how I was able to get the apartment. Whenever I turn 18 guess what my credit history got wiped out because I hit the teamwork.
Laura Lujan: For that whole like thing to happen with coffee number and then apartment is nowhere.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're talking about
Gwenevere Abriel: That's one level, but I'm not talking about credit. I'm talking about the psychological toll on your sense of identity, your sense of confidence and self esteem. That's the toll, it takes and and on the body.
Gwenevere Abriel: It keeps there. But let's keep talking because I want to see if we can get all the way through this. We got 10 minutes. These are really complex each one of these could take hours that we're going to just touch lightly on. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we're going to go over to this one, which is your once
Gwenevere Abriel: Your needs and feelings are secondary to others and or sometimes determined by others. So what you think feeling want is second always second
Gwenevere Abriel: Deferred yeah to someone else. So that's the unhealthy version they healthy version is you get in touch and you know your what you want. You know what you want. You know what you need. You know how your body feels and you communicate
Gwenevere Abriel: It clearly this is where therapy comes in right in here. This is where you get in touch with. Wait a minute, this may not be what other people want, but I really want this.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's where the new skills come in right in here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, let's go to the next one. Again, we're just touching briefly we can always come back to these next one you ignore your inner voice.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or here you ignore your inner voice and allow others expectations to define your potential. That sounds like
Laura Lujan: A MOM.
Gwenevere Abriel: Mom, I told you, you find one that matched it perfectly. And there it is.
Gwenevere Abriel: There it is. That's right. You know, you know, you're a rock star.
Gwenevere Abriel: And for whatever reason that that a with the plus means something. But it doesn't match reality your reality is you're crushing it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So this is how you have to hold on to yourself. The inner voice inside here knowing what you want what you feel what you experience how much work you did to get that grade. She's the one that sat at that test was things are hard.
Gwenevere Abriel: Shoe. OK, next one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Wait a minute. Did I do the healthy version of that. And no, you healthy version is you're committed to and responsible for exploring nurturing your
Gwenevere Abriel: full potential.
Gwenevere Abriel: So hopefully you'll get that feeling in here when we set goals like well what do you want to do and how, how, what's getting in the way of that is it insecurity. Is it fear is it debt is it I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, I'm scared I'm nervous. You know, I'm we that's where we can get into taking small steps to lean in to responsibility, accountability and commitment setting goals. It's going to be what you want, not what I want.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, it's going to the next one. You feel responsible for other people's happiness and fulfillment.
Laura Lujan: Oh rapper.
Gwenevere Abriel: Uh huh. And sometimes rely on your relationships to create that for you. Well, he's not happy. So how can I be happy.
Laura Lujan: Right. And I always like, if you are not even like okay, well then, so what am I doing wrong.
Laura Lujan: What am I doing nothing. I'm
Laura Lujan: Always thinking
Gwenevere Abriel: That's this one, you take on other people's problems as your own.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, okay. So, and look, look at the one below it, you tend to absorb the feelings of others.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right here. Yeah, baby.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so what's the healthy. What's the healthy version. We've got your so the healthy version is you are only responsible for your own. This is radically difficult
Gwenevere Abriel: For people that have been sacrificing their own happiness for others.
Gwenevere Abriel: You are responsible for your own happiness and fulfillment.
Gwenevere Abriel: You allow others to be responsible for their own happiness.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I know this is brand new to you, Laura. And you're like, How can this be true, how can love look like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because this is so foreign but notice how every single one of these ones on the unhealthy side, you said yes to
Gwenevere Abriel: That's because you are, you're in the environment, you are. There's, there's so much room to grow.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's keep going. You absorb the tenants or the feeling of others. We already know you're doing that you value, but a healthy version is you value your opinions and feelings as much
Gwenevere Abriel: As anybody else's as much as mine, as much as someone with authority as much as as anybody else's you value your own inner voice.
Laura Lujan: Your moral order.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well you value your own opinion.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, keep let's keep going. We're almost done. We got three more.
Gwenevere Abriel: Unhealthy WOULD BE YOUR ALLY on other people's opinions feelings and ideas more than you do your own kind of touched on that on this, the healthy version would be you know your limits.
Gwenevere Abriel: You allow others to define
Gwenevere Abriel: Their, their own
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, this is much like the top one, which is you can say yes and no.
Laura Lujan: And you can accept someone else's air.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes and no. It's the same thing, isn't it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you allow others to define your limits or trying to find them for you. Oh, you can do it. Mom was doing that with a business right there.
Gwenevere Abriel: How about how about the opposite, you're able to ask for help. How good are you asking for help.
Gwenevere Abriel: Her not too good.
Laura Lujan: For you.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you're doing you're doing this, you're doing this program. And you said, I'm open to whatever
Laura Lujan: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm open right that's that's letting help in
Gwenevere Abriel: The last one you compromise your values and beliefs.
In order to lead.
Gwenevere Abriel: Others narrative.
Laura Lujan: Wait.
Gwenevere Abriel: What did we start this whole conversation with
Gwenevere Abriel: avoid conflict at all costs. I will jump out the window.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, yeah.
Laura Lujan: Ah,
Gwenevere Abriel: So here's what the healthy version. It's exciting those warning this there's hope there's like this other way you're going to get to be that will feel like you're more yourself you're more honest with yourself. You're more connected in a meaningful way with people.
Gwenevere Abriel: It won't feel like
Gwenevere Abriel: People are always taking from you. You'll also be accepting from others, it will feel different, but it does take time because you're not rehearsed at it. So the healthy version, you don't compromise your values or integrity to avoid rejection abandonment or conflict.
Gwenevere Abriel: No joke. When I told you this takes people years so wasn't kidding. This is hard.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: What was it like to, to, to do this activity today.
Laura Lujan: Oh, I'm all
Laura Lujan: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tell me what you mean by disappointment because I'm, I'm not feeling disappointment. So I wanna. I'm curious about where you're just appointments coming in.
Laura Lujan: Okay, like I just
Laura Lujan: How many
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you say I let people I let people down
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: No, no. Know who you let down
Gwenevere Abriel: You've been trying to please everyone.
Gwenevere Abriel: You let you down.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's kind of where I step in and I say,
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't let go, uh, you
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold on to your truth. That's where your inner voices. That's the one that knows when you start to get irritated and angry. That's when one of those inner voice is speaking up
Gwenevere Abriel: A truth is there deep inside about what's right and wrong for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: And tuning into that and not letting go.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that you don't abandon you.
You don't let go.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I know it's a lot, isn't it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I know.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's why each one of those could take months or years, they just take time because you guys aren't used to it, you're not used to even sitting with your own, you know, honest, like this is what I really want
Gwenevere Abriel: If I speak up. Am I going to lose everything I do not speak up. This is unrehearsed and unfamiliar.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's okay. Just two little bits at a time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, let's get it, let's set another appointment, you and I, what do you say
Gwenevere Abriel: You're so brave.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know that
Gwenevere Abriel: To look at these things.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you feel. Yeah, I know, I know you're okay. But it's also okay to be strong and sad. We can be strong and sad. At the same time, because to sit with that sorrow. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's, that's where, that's sort of how we get that fertile soil to grow new fruits
Gwenevere Abriel: To kind of get into our truth or new tree. Our new sense of grounding in who we are. That's okay.
Laura Lujan: All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: I didn't leave a lot of room in this session. Right. And I with with a couple minutes that we have and
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll tell you what I'm looking right now. So you and I didn't already schedule anything for next week. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I see, I see. We did the 10am here and then let's go over to
Gwenevere Abriel: Your contacts coming out.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: How about
Gwenevere Abriel: May 14
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I'm just gonna make a little note of that 1210 and I'm trying to put in there.
Uh huh.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then
Laura Lujan: Tomorrow morning,
Laura Lujan: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I think, yeah, I really want you to be there. I like the topic that we're like all my topics but
Gwenevere Abriel: AM I KIDDING. I bring them up so I like them.
Gwenevere Abriel: I really do want you to be there. So, and I'm just for today. You know when you notice that you want to give yourself a hard time
Gwenevere Abriel: No, just have some loving, compassionate about the fact that you couldn't possibly have known these things because you hadn't learned them you can't do what you don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: What you're looking at
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, you gotta go put in your eye. Okay. All right, I'll see you later.